:memo: Added Interaction guide (#288)
Pincer-org/Pincer: docs/interactions.rst

Interactions
============

Pincer makes it extremely easy to create an interaction. All you need to do is create a method with the `@command` decorator.

.. note::

>     Although purely functional bots are possible, its recommended to inherit from the `Client` class as seen in the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Although purely functional bots are possible, it's recommended to inherit from the `Client` class as seen in the example below.
```

.. code-block:: python

  from pincer import Client
  from pincer.commands import command

  class Bot(Client):
    @command
    async def some_command(self):
      ...

  bot = Bot("TOKEN")
  bot.run()

> This registers a command called "some_command". Its pretty useless right now so lets take a closer look at what else you can do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This registers a command called "some_command". It's pretty useless right now, so let's take a closer look at what else you can do.
```

.. note::

>     If you aren't seeing your command register, its likely because it takes up to one hour for a global slash command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you're not seeing your command register, it's likely because it takes up to one hour for a global slash command to do so.
```

    Specify the guild in the command decorator to have application commands register instantly.

> To register your command a guild do:

Reviewer: Not sure if this was on purpose or not ._.
```suggestion
To register your command to a guild do:
```

.. code-block:: python

>     @command(guild=SOME_NUMBER)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @command(guild=MY_GUILD_ID)
```

    async def some_command(self):
        ...

Sending messages to the user is extremely easy. What you want to return is inferred by the object's return type. A :class:`str` can be returned to send a text message.

> Heres a simple ping command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a simple ping command.
```

.. code-block:: python

    @command
    async def ping(self):
        return "pong"

> If you need access to more information, you can pass in the :data:`ctx` object.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion, what if we put a link to the class here?

```suggestion
If you need access to more information, you can pass in the :class:`ctx <~pincer.objects.message.context.MessageContext>` object.
```

Author: Good idea

.. note::

>     `ctx` and `self` should be those exact names or the correct value will not be passed in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ``ctx`` and ``self`` should be those exact names or the correct value will not be passed in.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from pincer.objects import MessageContext
    ...

    @command
    async def hello(self, ctx: MessageContext):
        # Returns the name of the user that initiated the interaction
        return f"hello {ctx.author}"

Application Command Types
-------------------------

> Pincer provides an API for all three interaction command types. The only thing that varies is the function signiture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pincer provides an API for all three interaction command types. The only thing that varies is the function signature.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from pincer.commands import command, user_command, message_command
    from pincer.objects import MessageContext, UserMessage, User
    ...

    @command
    # Can have any amount of inputs
    async def ping(self, ctx: MessageContext, arg1: str, arg2: str):
        return "pong"

    # Must have a parameter for users. User can be a GuildMember. All User
    # methods are available to GuildMember because GuildMember inherits from
    # User.
    async def user_ping(self, ctx: MessageContext, user: User):
        return "pong"

    # Must have a parameter for messages.
    async def message_ping(self, ctx: MessageContext, message: UserMessage):
        return "pong"

Interaction Timeout
-------------------
Interactions time out after 3 seconds. To extend the timeout to 15 minutes you can run :meth:`ack` from
:class:`~pincer.objects.MessageContext`. :class:`~pincer.objects.app.interaction_flags.InteractionFlags` is available in this method.

Arguments
---------

> Arguments are more variables in the command. Notice how `word` is typehinted as string.

Reviewer: No clue what the first sentence means really :sweat_smile:

Author: Changed to "Every parameter besides ``ctx`` and ``self`` is inferred to be a slash command argument."

Pincer uses type hints to infer the argument type that you want.

.. code-block:: python

    @command

>     async def say(self, word: str):

Author: I don't think this function needs the return to be typehinted because the return value goes into a magic void where it's never looked at. I think added `-> str` will also make it a little more confusing on what I mean when I say the type is inferred.

>     async def say(self, word: str):

Reviewer 2: I agree with Lunar here. 
Also it would just be more confusing for a beginner. We have to think that many people who are using this are using Python for the first time or at least beginners, because they want to make a discord bot. That's how some people started Python by creating a bot with discord.py. We have an obligation to maintain that ease and continue the legacy. Of course there are many people who know Python well and are using Pincer but we need to keep in mind that it should be easy to understand.

        return word

The list of possible type hints is as follows:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 50 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Class
     - Command Argument Type
   * - :class:`str`
     - String
   * - :class:`int`
     - Integer
   * - :class:`bool`
     - Boolean
   * - :class:`float`
     - Number
   * - :class:`pincer.objects.User`
     - User
   * - :class:`pincer.objects.Channel`
     - Channel
   * - :class:`pincer.objects.Role`
     - Role
   * - :class:`pincer.objects.Mentionable`
     - Mentionable

> You might want to specify more information for your arguments. If you want a description for your command you will have to use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might want to specify more information for your arguments. If you want a description for your command, you will have to use the
```

:class:`~pincer.commands.arg_types.Description` type. Modifier types like this need to be inside of the :class:`~pincer.commands.arg_types.CommandArg`
type.

.. code-block:: python

    from pincer.commands import CommandArg, Description
    from pincer.objects import MessageContext

    @command
    async def say(self,
        ctx: MessageContext,
        word: CommandArg[
          str,

>           # This will likely marked as incorrect by your linter but it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          # This will likely be marked as incorrect by your linter but it is
```

>           # valid python. Simply append # type: ignore for most linters and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          # valid Python. Simply append # type: ignore for most linters and
```

          # noqa: F722 if you are using Flake8.
          Description["A word that the bot will say."]  # type: ignore # noqa: F722
        ]
    ):
        # Returns the name of the user that initiated the interaction
        return word

> Arguments will be an optional argument in Discord if they are an optional argument in Python.

Reviewer: Same here, struggling to understand the beginning of the sentence lol

Author: Changed to "Parameters will be an optional slash command arguments if they have a default value in Python." and added an example.

These are the available modifiers:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 25 40 35
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Modifier
     - What it does
     - Locked to types
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.Description`
     - Description of a command option.
     -
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.Choices`
     - Application command choices.
     - :class:`str`, :class:`int`, :class:`float`
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.ChannelTypes`
     - A group of channel types that a user can pick from.
     - :class:`~pincer.objects.guild.channel.Channel`

>    * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.MaxValue`
>      - The max value for a number.
>      - :class:`int`, :class:`float`
>    * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.MinValue`
>      - The minimum value for a number.
>      - :class:`int`, :class:`float`

Reviewer: Stay consistent, do either of these:
```suggestion
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.MaxValue`
     - The maximum value for a number.
     - :class:`int`, :class:`float`
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.MinValue`
     - The minimum value for a number.
     - :class:`int`, :class:`float`
```
```suggestion
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.MaxValue`
     - The max value for a number.
     - :class:`int`, :class:`float`
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.arg_types.MinValue`
     - The min value for a number.
     - :class:`int`, :class:`float`
```

Return Types
------------

> :class:`str` isn't the only thing you can return. For a more complex message you can return a :class:`~pincer.objects.message.message.Message` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:class:`str` isn't the only thing you can return. For a more complex message, you can return a :class:`~pincer.objects.message.message.Message` object.
```

The message object allows you to return embeds and attachments. :class:`~pincer.objects.app.interaction_flags.InteractionFlags` are only available in the response
if you return a :class:`~pincer.objects.message.message.Message` object.

.. code-block:: python

  from pincer import Client, command, Embed
  from pincer.objects import Message, File
  ...

  @command
  async def a_complex_message(self):
    return Message(
      "This is the message's content"
      embeds=[
        Embed(
          title="Pincer",

>           description=(
>             "🚀 An asynchronous python API wrapper meant to replace"
>             " discord.py\n> Snappy discord api wrapper written "
>             "with aiohttp & websockets"
>           ).set_image(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description=(
            "🚀 An asynchronous python API wrapper meant to replace"
            " discord.py\n> Snappy discord api wrapper written"
            " with aiohttp & websockets"
          ).set_image(
```

            url="attachments://some_image.png"
          )
        )
      ],
      attachments=[
        File.from_file("path/to/a/file.png", filename="new_name.png"),
        "path/to/another/file.png" # A string is inferred to be a filepath here!
      ]
    )

Attachments can also be Pillow images if Pillow is installed.

.. code-block:: python

  from PIL import Image
  ...

  attachments=[
    Image.new("RGBA", (500, 500), (255, 0, 0)), # Will automatically be named `image0.png`
    Image.new("RGB", (500, 500)), # Will automatically be named `image1.png`
    File.from_pillow_image(some_pillow_image, "this_is_the_image_name.png") # You can also do this to specify the name
  ]

Additionally, Pillow Images, Files, and Embeds can be returned directly without wrapping them in a :class:`~pincer.objects.message.message.Message` object.

.. code-block:: python

  ...
  @command
  async def a_complex_message(self):
    return Embed(
      title="Pincer",

>       description=(
>         "🚀 An asynchronous python API wrapper meant to replace"
>         " discord.py\n> Snappy discord api wrapper written "
>         "with aiohttp & websockets"
>       )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description=(
        "🚀 An asynchronous python API wrapper meant to replace"
        " discord.py\n> Snappy discord api wrapper written"
        " with aiohttp & websockets"
      )
```

    )

.. list-table:: Possible Return Types
   :widths: 50 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Return Type
     - Discord Message
   * - :class:`str`
     - text only message
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.message.embed.Embed`
     - Discord embed
   * - :class:`~pincer.objects.message.file.File`
     - file attachment
   * - :class:`PIL.Image.Image`
     - single image attachment

Sending Messages Without Return
-------------------------------
The :class:`~pincer.objects.message.context.MessageContext` object provides methods to send a response to an interaction.

.. code-block:: python

    from pincer.objects import MessageContext, Message

    @command

>     async def some_command(self, ctx: MessageContext):
>         ctx.send("Hello word!") # Sends hello world as the response to the interaction
>         return # No response will be sent now that the interaction has been completed
> 
>     @command
>     async def some_other_command(self, ctx: MessageContext):
>         channel = await self.get_channel(ctx.channel_id)
>         channel.send("Hello word!") # Sends a message in the channel
>         return "Hello world 2" # This is sent because the interaction was not "used up"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    async def some_command(self, ctx: MessageContext):
        ctx.send("Hello world!") # Sends hello world as the response to the interaction
        return # No response will be sent now that the interaction has been completed

    @command
    async def some_other_command(self, ctx: MessageContext):
        channel = await self.get_channel(ctx.channel_id)
        channel.send("Hello world!") # Sends a message in the channel
        return "Hello world 2" # This is sent because the interaction was not "used up"
```
